So let's talk about defining a structure
of a Java class.
Since an object is an instantiation of a class
it seems appropriate to discuss
Java's class structure here.
We've discussed some of this previously
in the video of packages and import statements
earlier in the course.
So you know that a source file
consists of the following sections.
1 or zero package statements.
This must be the first line of source code
Excluding comments and white space.
Zero to many import statements
These statements follow the package statement
if one exists and precede any other source code.
You already know that import.java.ling.* is implied
if you are using any classes in the java.lang package
If you are creating a class with the same name
as any class in the java.lang package
you'll need to either add a single import statement
with a name conflicts or use
a Fully Qualified Class Name
on the java.lang class.
And I've shown an example of this
previously in the course.
And the source file can also
consist of one or many type references
where type is class, interface or an enum.
Only one type reference can be public
in a single source file
with the exception of nested reference types
which I'll discuss later.
The source file name must match
the outermost public types reference name.
So I'm going to talk about
interfaces and enum structures later.
For this section,
we're going to look at the class type reference itself.
A java class type consists of two sections,
the declaration and the class body block.
Blocks are contained in bracket sets,
left and right curly braces.
The class declaration requires
only the reserved word "class",
and the Typeidentifier,
in other words the name of the class.
So basically the format here is we've got a class,
modifier, class, Typeidentifier,
TypeParameters, Superclass, Superinterfaces.
The absolute minimal class declaration is shown.
So we've got class, test, left and right curly braces.
So let's talk about each of the sections
of the Declaration.
We're going to be discussing most of the implementations
in future videos.
So the class modifier, while modifiers declare
the accessibility of the class as well
as additional information about a class
abstract, static, final.
TypeParameters, a class is generic if it declares
one or more type variables.
This will not be on the first part of the exam.
Superclass. This section is optional
The extends clause in a normal class declaration
specifies that the direct superclass of the current class
And superinterfaces, this section is also optional
the implements clause in a class declaration
lists the name, so the interface is that a direct
Superinterfaces of the class being declared.
So here I want to talk about the class modifier
sections, structures and options.
It's a compile-time error if the same keyword
appears more than once as a modifier
for a class declaration
or if a class declaration has more than one
of the access modifiers
public, protected and private.
The class modifier section can declare
zero or 1 access modifier.
Note if no modifier is specified
it is by default package access
also known as package-private.
So we'll discuss each of these and their
declarations implications in a later section
We've got public, protected
and only a nested class can be protected
or private, only a nested class can be private.
In addition, the class modifier section can declare
zero or several of the following modifiers:
abstract, declaring a class abstract means
it has one or more methods that are declared abstract.
It expects a sub-class to implement fully
the abstract methods.
Static. The static modifier pertains only to member
classes and not to top level,
or local or anonymous classes.
Final, declares that a class's definition is complete
and no subclasses are desired or required.
A final class can not have its name
in an extends declaration of another class.
And finally, strictfp.
The affect of a strictfp modifier is to restrict
floating-point calculations, to ensure portability
across platforms.
So here's some valid declarations.
Public class test. Java file must be Test.java
if this is your declaration.
Public abstract class Test. Declaring a class abstract
means you can not create an object directly from it.
Static class Test. You can only declare a class static
if it is a member of another class.
And public final class Test. A final class
can not be an extends clause;
it can not have a subclass.
And here's some invalid declaration examples.
Public public class Test. You cannot duplicate modifiers.
Private protected class Test. You can not have
more than 1 access modifier declared.
And final abstract class Test.
Final and abstract are mutually exclusive declarations.
Abstract requires a class to extend and complete it,
whereas Final states that no class can extend it.
Alright, let's finish the video here
and in the next one we'll continue on
and we'll actually view some declaration examples
which have modifiers and or extends implements declarations
that are valid and invalid.
See you in the next video.